Hi I'm Yolanda Vanveen from vanveenbulbs.com
and next we are going to talk about what kind
of soil should I use for organic gardening.
Now we all want an organic garden. We don't
want to use any chemicals, we don't want to
kill any bugs. We don't want to kill any broad
leaves because we realize there is other options
besides chemicals so our number one concern
when we are starting our flower beds is what
kind of soil should we use for organic gardening?
So the best soil to use for your organic garden
is compost and a lot of places in the country
you can't just go to the store and ask for
compost, they don't even carry it. So my rule
of thumb if you can't find good compost just
use good potting soil and there is all different
types of blends out there. You can get truck
loads delivered from different nurseries or
garden centers or you can buy them by the
bag at different nurseries as well. A lot
of times if you find them on sale they are
not very expensive. So I always ask is this
compost that has chemicals? Does it have fertilizers?
Does it have weeds in it? So the soil that
has been baked is the best so if you can find
any soil where they call it baked is where
they put it under high temperatures where
it calls all the seeds and it kills all the
diseases so you are starting off with soil
that has already been treated and should do
really well for many years to come. So it
is easy to organic garden and it is just by
not using any chemicals that is all you need
to do. I have got a big compost pile myself
where I put grass clippings and leaf clippings
and I keep turning it up but it takes a couple
of years before it is ready to put into my
flower beds so you can make yours yourself
or there are a lot of different companies
that sell organic soil so I think the key
is to make sure that it is baked so it is
not full of weeds. Make sure it is not just
pine needles I have had that issue before
where it is just pine needles and there is
not enough substantial organic matter or even
a lot of the mushroom composts are great too
I'm finding because all of my plants have
done really well in them but just go on line
and search and talk to different companies
and do your research and that is all you can
do and support all your local companies because
why have it shipped in from far away when
I'm sure there is a local company that you
can support just down the street.